welcome to the man of recaps this is
peaky blinders seasons one through five
leading up to the sixth and final season
welcome to birmingham england in 1919
it's a real nice place if you like
industrial wastelands where everything's
always on fire tommy shelby is the
leader of the biggest gang here the
peaky blinders so named because they sew
razor blades in their hats and they go
for the eyes they're in the business of
betting on horse races which is
apparently extremely profitable it's a
family business tommy's older brother
arthur is the angry one his younger
brother john is the dumb one
is also his sister aydah and his aunt
paul pauly gray who was running the
business while the boys were off
fighting in world war one
tommy is the smart one who's always got
some master plan he's keeping to himself
but one day during a routine robbery the
peaky blinders accidentally steal
some high-tech military-grade machine
guns the british military was secretly
shipping
losing those guns is a big deal it comes
to the attention of winston churchill
himself
and so he sends in a specialist to get
them back it's chief inspector campbell
he's a real hard ass who's willing to
fight dirty and he's been authorized to
use excessive force
suspect one are the peaky blinders
themselves but he's also concerned about
communist agitators like freddy thawne
who's inciting the workers to strike
incidentally freddy thon is dating aydah
shelby and gets her pregnant at first
tommy wants to kill him but these two
are all childhood friends and war
buddies so he gets permission to marry
her but inspector campbell's most
worried about suspect 3 the
ira without getting too deep into irish
history ireland's rebelling against
england and the ira would love to get
their hands on those guns
speaking of irish there's a new girl in
town it's grace who gets a job
bartending at the peaky blinders bar the
garrison tommy instantly takes a liking
to her but grace has a secret she's
working undercover for inspector
campbell she was from a loyalist irish
family and her father was killed by the
ira so her beef is personal eventually
tommy meets with inspector campbell and
tells him he has the guns but not where
they're hidden it's like look i'm about
to make a big move in the illegal horse
betting business if you stay out of my
way afterwards i'll give you the guns so
first tommy gets his friend johnny dogs
to arrange a parlay with the lee
brothers they're a romani gang in the
area and actually the shelby brothers
are half reminding themselves on their
mother's side but for now tommy picks a
fight they're going to war with the lees
and as is tradition they inscribe
tommy's name on a bullet this one's for
you
meanwhile tommy's been fixing horse
races which comes to the attention of
the big horse race boss
billy kimber at first he's going to kill
tommy for fixing races without his
permission but
tommy's like hey look i'm at war with
the lees and they're at war with you
right now too we should join forces
yes this is part of tommy's master plan
he picked a fight with the lees on
purpose to get in with billy kimber so
he can later overthrow him arthur is
like hey bro how about a heads up next
time
so tommy takes grace to the darby and
these two start their romance and while
the lee boys are stealing from billy
kimber's men now the peaky blinders are
here to steal right back so tommy's
proved his worth to billy kimber and as
a reward wants a legal betting license
as part of the deal though billy kimber
wants grace and tommy's gonna give her
to him but he busted into saver saying
hey sorry man you don't want this girl
though she got the clap
grace is like wow thanks i guess and so
the deal goes through the peaky blinders
are now partially legal it's the start
of the shelby brothers limited meanwhile
jon wants to get married he's fallen in
love with lizzie stark who is the town
prostitute in fact she's tommy's go-to
prostitute and it's like hey i hear
you're marrying my brother but how about
one more go for old time's sake she's
like oh tommy sure why not but it was a
test she was supposed to say no
he's like i'm not gonna let you marry my
brother tommy has a different bride in
mind for his brother
esme of the leaf family yeah they're
gonna unite the clans
it's a good match these two are
constantly doing it and now that they've
made peace the shelby and lee families
are united they're gonna team up and
take down billy kimber meanwhile grace
is still reporting back to inspector
campbell tommy's really started to trust
her and because she's good at math lets
her help with the business but one day
arthur lets slip
where the guns are hidden danny whizbang
fought in the war with tommy but is
suffering from some serious ptsd
in fact all the boys are the only way
tommy can ever sleep is with the help of
opium but one day dany freaks out and
kills an italian so the italian gang
demands justice there's nothing for it
tommy's gotta kill his friend
except he didn't kill him they managed
to fake it they did bury something
though
that's where they hid the stolen guns
congrats grace you did a great job
in fact hey do you want to marry me but
grace is like oh
no you're like a father to me so she
puts him in the dad's own in fact
she's fallen in love with tommy and
these two get it
on and finally the day has come tommy's
making his move on billy kimber but he
had marked it on the calendar back when
grace was still reporting to campbell
so campbell tipped off billy kimber and
billy kimber comes down in force before
tommy's ready the peaky blinders are
vastly outmanned but they are not
outgunned because tommy kept one of the
machine guns they just used it to break
freddy thon out of prison and now he's
here to even the odds but then ada
shelby comes with their new baby like
hey y'all men
stop fighting and billy kimber agrees
the only one that needs to die is
tommy he takes the shot but the bullet
is blocked by danny whizbang and tommy
boom
takes out billy kimber the rest of the
guys just go home so tommy wins though
it's bittersweet because he finds out
grace was the undercover cop he still
loves her though and she's like tommy
i'm sorry let's run away together and
leave this world behind us
tommy considers it he flips a coin to
make the decision for him but it's not
to tommy that shows up at the train
station it's the jealous wannabe lover
inspector campbell here to kill her a
gunshot rings out and season one ends on
the cliffhanger season two picks up
right there and we find out it was grace
who fired the shot from her burst gun
hitting campbell and fleeing off to
america so now two years later tommy
shelby and the peaky blinders are now
the top horse racing crime gang in
northern
england but you know the big fish is
down in the south it's london the shelby
brothers go down there and start some
trouble with the italian crime boss
sabine but tommy may be punching above
his weight because a beanie immediately
tracks him down and is gonna kill him
but he saved at the last minute when the
cops show up including one with a badass
wolf's head cane
it is inspector campbell yes he survived
grace hit him in the leg and he's meaner
than ever he blackmails tommy into
working for him assassinating irish
revolutionaries so that if he's caught
it'll look like organized crime and not
the english government in the meantime
tommy's plan of expanding into
london involves befriending alfie
solomon's leader of the jewish gang
played by tom hardy he is a hilarious
character who talks nonstop in his weird
rambling mumbly voice but now working
together the jews and the peaky blinders
are trouncing the italians and around
this time is when the show's catchphrase
really gets going
arthur shelby by the way had a plot last
season where he got totally scammed by
their dad he felt bad after this tried
to hang himself but failed his dad beat
his ass in the boxing ring so now
arthur's gotten really into boxing and
his unbridled rage he accidentally kills
a kid one day arthur feels bad but
someone introduces him to cocaine and
now he feels great
freddy thawne died unceremoniously
during the time jump from an illness and
ada mostly doesn't want anything to do
with the family and jon just keeps doing
whatever john does aunt paulie the
season tracks down her son
michael who was taken from her as a baby
by child services michael's a real nice
kid and at first probably wants to keep
him far away from the business but
michael wants to be part of it
eventually they compromise and he
becomes the accountant just for the
legal part of the business
lizzie stark is still the girl tommy
goes to for his sexual needs she's like
tommy we're basically friends with
benefits you don't have to pay me but he
always does
and pretty soon he also hires her as his
personal assistant when he goes to buy a
horse tommy finds a new romance and
noblewoman mae carlton they go for a
drink where she's like look we are
definitely not having sex but then
immediately do but also grace is back in
town visiting with her american husband
she and tommy go for a drink where she's
like look we are definitely not having
sex but then
immediately do eventually tommy's given
his final assassination mission and to
ensure his compliance and spectre
campbell has his cousin michael arrested
his mother paulie's not gonna let that
stand she goes to see campbell herself
and he's a real dirty dog she sleeps
with him to get michael released then
the tide turns on the london gang war
front when sabine convinces alfie
solomon's to turn on the peaky blinders
and rejoin him so tommy goes to alfie to
renegotiate and they're just gonna kill
him but tommy's like hey remember when i
tied my shoe coming in i planted a
grenade that'll blow this whole place up
it's a hilarious tense conversation as
alfie tries to decide if tommy's
bluffing or not but in the end it's like
hey man you're crazy alright you got a
deal and so it's time for the big climax
on darby day
tommy has to make his final move against
zabini and also assassinate some guy for
the british government just then grace
shows up to add more to his plate she's
pregnant and it's definitely tommy's
because her husband's sterile she's like
tommy i still love you and he's like
alright girl i'll deal with this later
so tommy kills this guy and blames it on
the ira and since the king of england's
here they pull all the cops to come
protect him including the dirty cops
that were protecting sabini's men so
without their protection the peaky
blinders swoop in
and take all his territory the police do
pick up tommy though but turns out these
aren't real cops these are inspector
campbell's guys who he assigned to kill
tommy after his job was done but just as
campbell thinks he won
and paulie comes in for her revenge
shoots him don't
the peaky blinders unfortunately for
tommy though this looks like the end but
what's this one of these guys all
betrays and shoots the other two
congrats mr shelby you get to live cause
winston churchill isn't done with you
yet yeah campbell hated tommy because of
the grace thing and wanted to kill him
after the job was done but his boss
winston churchill saw tommy was a war
hero and is like nah i kind of like this
guy so
season 2 ends tommy shelby has won on
all fronts season 3 begins on tommy and
grace's wedding day her american husband
conveniently died tommy's got a son now
and as the top crime boss of all england
tommy's legitimately very rich
it's a beautiful wedding but business
never stops because that very night he's
working out a deal with the russians
some former russian nobles are here in
exile after the communist revolution the
british government wants to sell them
tanks to take back their country and
stop the spread of communism but for
diplomatic reasons they can't do it
legally so they go to their go-to
criminal tommy shelby he's branched out
from horse betting the shelby brothers
limited have a whole legal shipping
empire now but they're still illegally
shipping alcohol to america during
prohibition but this organization is not
run by tommy's friend winston churchill
it's run by a creepy pedo priest who
represents a clandestine british
intelligence organization called the
economic league or section d
now the peaky blinders are the top dogs
the other gangs have to pay tribute to
him but they've gone too far with mr
changretta when john has a personal beef
and blinds his son and so at a fancy
party he tries to have tommy
assassinated but oh grace is the one who
gets hit
and no grace dies tommy goes to a real
dark place and wants to torture mr
shingrada to death but arthur shoots him
like come on tommy we don't do that so
tommy has depressed rebound sex with the
russian duchess tatiana petrovna she
seems like the fun sexy kind of crazy
but turns out she's just like full-on
crazy in fact one night while they're
doing it she chokes him out until he
almost passes out so he can hallucinate
grace
thanks i guess now checking in with the
family arthur shelby also got married to
a nice girl named linda who's a devout
christian and made him pretty boring and
paulie starts dating a painter ada gets
a job at the library
and jon just keeps doing whatever john
does and so the russian tank deal is
moving forward but tommy finds out the
pedo priest is leaking their plan to the
soviet embassy tommy goes to kill him
but oh this guy was one step ahead turns
out that's part of section d's full plan
they're leaking the tank deal to the
soviets so they'll blow up the train and
after an act of violence on british soil
the government will have just cause to
act against the soviets publicly so
tommy pretends to keep going through
with the deal he brings in alfie
solomon's to pick out which jewels he
wants from the russians as payment he
doesn't trust them to pay up though so
he's digging a tunnel he's going to
steal all the jewels anyway then he
sabotages the tanks and tells the
soviets hey they were trying to trick
you to blowing it up now you don't have
to but pedobree's got word of tommy's
betrayal and captures his son
it's like hey now you're going to give
us all the jewels you steal and now you
guys better blow up that train so
tommy's got to go for the tunnel he was
a tunneler back in the war still the
jewels his brothers prepare to blow the
train while cousin michael goes to
rescue tommy's son yes michael's a
really smart guy been helping to run
more and more of the legal business but
he kind of likes that gangster life he
wants to get into the other parts too so
he confronts peto priest who turns out
peddled him when he was a kid so he
kills him slow
so one time he gets the sun back it's
too late arthur and john didn't get the
cancel orders boom they blow up that
train tommy gets to keep half the gems
too turns out he's splitting them with
the duchess
it was her idea to steal them from her
parents tommy finds out it was alfie
solomon's who betrayed his plan to
section d
but alfie's like hey man i'm too funny
of a minor character to kill you gotta
keep me around
and so again tommy has won more or less
this russian deal was more trouble than
it was worth
also the remaining members of section d
want to cover this up and so the cops
are on their way here right now to
arrest the whole family
tommy's like don't worry guys i have a
plan i've already started working out a
deal but it's like how about a little
heads up next time
and so season three ends as the entire
shelby family except for tommy is going
to jail
so in season four tommy shelby's getting
his family released because in the
russians basement he found a letter from
the king of england authorizing that
arms deal they can't let that get out
they've got to do what tommy says but
section d
is playing dirty they sneakily move up
the executions and looks like the whole
shelby family gonna get hanged it's not
till the very last minute they get the
stay of execution as a part of tommy's
deal he also negotiated a ton more
government contracts and an obe which is
a real fancy british thing
so one year later thomas shelby obe is a
legitimately fancy
english gentleman what is this new look
i hate it and his whole family hates him
now for almost getting him killed it's
only his personal assistant lizzie stark
who stuck by him but he still treats her
like a prostitute michael has stuck by
tommy too helping him run the whole
business he's clearly tommy's protege
and successor
arthur's grown out longhair living the
quiet country life with his wife linda
who's really tamed his wild side and
john shelby also retired just keeps
doing whatever john does but this piece
is interrupted when they all receive a
black hand from the new york italian
mafia yes it is adrian brody as luca
changretta the other son of mr chang
greta they killed he moved to new york
and rise through the ranks he's now a
top boss over there come back to
birmingham to revenge his father so the
family has to come back together to face
this new threat and the gang's back in
birmingham for more epic slo-mo walking
shots
michael goes to warn john but john's
like hey i could take care of myself but
just then oh more assassins and john is
shot oh
michael gets it too lucky he's okay but
john shelby is dead
in the bleak mid-winter now by the way
there is a fourth shelby brother it's
young finn who is like 10 years behind
him but he's almost an adult now so it's
time for him to join the business
peaky blinders gear up for war and tommy
hires one more soldier
it's aiden gillian littlefinger as
aborama gold
he's a romani hitman and you know he
means business cause of that ridiculous
hair
he's actually kind of a nice guy though
and since her brush with death aunt
paulie's feeling wild and free these two
get hit on but even with all the
security luka changretta makes it to see
tommy he's on a whole different level
it's like dummy i could kill you
whenever i want
he wants to kill tommy's whole family
first though and save tommy for last
assassins come for arthur but he
survives by going back into beast mode
yes being back in birmingham he's
letting the wild side out now and even
his wife linda's like oh well when in
rome
she kinda becomes a party girl too
meanwhile there's a new character this
season jessie eden a woman's labor
activist and she actually organizes a
big woman strike eventually though they
go for a drink where she's like hey we
are definitely not having sex and they
don't
that night anyway a few days later they
get it on
but tommy still hooks up with lizzie
stark sometimes and the one time he
doesn't pay her she gets pregnant soon
though he's like hey girl you've
convinced me i'm on the side of workers
now
let me in on your whole communist
revolution but he's playing both sides
because he also goes to the british
government like hey i'm infiltrating the
communist revolution for you i'll bring
you agitators in exchange
for more money for me one day aunt
paulie has a secret meeting with luca
changretta i'll give up tommy if you
spare my son michael luca goes to visit
michael just to prove he could kill him
but he doesn't it's like
tell your aunt bali we got a deal and
when push comes to shove michael does
not warn tommy about dan pauly's
betrayal so luka's got tommy trapped or
is it tommy who has luca trapped yes
he's got a machine gun here but gun
technology has come a long way since
then it ends in a draw of course paulie
wouldn't betray tommy this was all
tommy's plan to lure luca into a trap
but tommy's pretty mad at michael now
for not warning him so he exiles him off
to handle the business in america and so
it's the big climax at a boxing match
aboriginal gold's son is a small guy but
a really great fighter versus alfie
solomon's fighter a real big
guy they call goliath but arthur notices
that some of alfie solomon's coaches
don't seem to know anything about boxing
yes luca got to him first and made him
monofer he couldn't refuse to betray
tommy again
so these hitmen oh strangle arthur tommy
gets there to save him but he's too
late arthur has dead after this luca
trangrata feels like he's pretty much
won he's realized it'll hurt tommy moore
if he lets him live having taken
everything from him but tommy once again
had a secret master plan that he didn't
tell us about until just this moment he
made a deal with other crime bosses in
new york that wanted to take out luca
but couldn't do it on that turf but can
do it here in england and
turns out arthur survived they faked his
death so could drop his guard he shoots
luca changretta
don't fall with the peaky blinders he
tracks down alfie solomon's again who
betrayed him again and this time they
shoot each other tommy leaves him for
dead and so once again
tommy has won with no higher he could
possibly climb
thomas shelby retires but he's been
fighting so long he doesn't know how to
retire he goes on an awful depression
bender he finally decides retirement's
not for me
he's got an idea of how to climb even
higher tommy decides to run for
parliament and being that he owns
birmingham he wins
he's got a new baby daughter now and to
be respectable he marries lizzy stark
sorry jesse eden and so as season 4
comes to an end tommy shelby the bookie
from birmingham has made it to
parliament
season five begins with another time
jump to october 29th
1929. if you paid attention in history
class you know that's the day of the big
stock market crash
now tommy being a savvy guy saw this
coming and told michael to pull all
their funds out but over in america
michael's been living the good life with
his new girlfriend
gina on nutella joy michael thought he
knew better he did not sell and so the
shelby family fortune has evaporated
the crash has put all their legal
business in disarray so it's time to
pivot and refocus on the off the books
illegal business and
so the shelbys are back in birmingham
once again michael gray comes back to
birmingham too ready for the family to
meet his new wife gina but michael's in
big trouble right now not just for
losing their money but because someone
tipped off tommy that he was meeting
with people trying to take tommy down
michael denies this but until they can
prove his innocence he's in the doghouse
someone is trying to take tommy down
they leave him a crucified scarecrow in
his yard with
land mines which dummy carefully removes
this time it's a scottish gang the billy
boys who come out of the woods singing
their own theme song their leader is
jimmy mccavern a real bad dude who pays
a visit
to aborama gold who's cut his dumb hair
and grown an awesome mustache but they
force him to watch as they kill his son
tell tommy shelby we're coming for him
so abrama goes on the warpath to get
revenge it's fun times in scotland but
tommy's busy down in parliament where
turns out being a politician is pretty
similar to being a gangster tommy's with
the labour party he's a champion of the
people and he's a very good speaker
which attracts the attention of one
oswald moseley he's like hey man you're
really good at getting the support of
the common people how would you like to
do a slight pivot from communism
into fascism now tommy is not into
fascism but he's like sure man i'm in
because just like with communism he's
going undercover and reporting to
british intelligence his contact these
days is colonel ben younger who
incidentally has struck up a
relationship with his sister aydah and
she's pregnant
though she hasn't told him yet tommy's
pivot to fascism attracts the attention
of winston churchill who we haven't seen
since season two he's like tommy you're
not actually a fascist right and it's
like no i'm going undercover to take him
down and it's like right oh then carry
on chap
so tommy pretends to befriend oswald
mosley who is just an awful person
he's basically an english hitler in fact
he's also recruited the billy boys to
the fascist movement it's like hey you
guys got to squash your beef we're on
the same side now meanwhile linda is mad
at arthur for reasons i don't fully
understand i think she doesn't like who
she's become when she's around him in
fact she's been going back to church
where she met a guy and they are just
friends but arthur goes down there and
does some peaky blinding on him so at
tommy's fancy ballet party linda comes
to crash it she's gonna shoot arthur but
boom oh aunt paulie shoots her first
abrama gold had just proposed to her so
these two are getting it on nearby linda
survives though she's pretty mad and
arthur
tries to apologize says they go back to
the way things were but she doesn't want
to hear it she leaves him for good
tommy's marriage with lizzie stark is
not perfect either he doesn't love her
he's still in love with grace
in fact tommy's been chugging opium this
season so he can hallucinate grace and
he's been having suicidal thoughts
so he can see her again but these two do
care about each other they're basically
long-term friends with benefits so it
works out long story short tommy gets
some evidence against mosley but when he
gives it to younger oh a car bomb
mostly had more influence than we
realized and this especially sucks for
poor ada and so tommy realizes mosley's
too dangerous
he's gotta kill him tommy calls a shelby
family meeting but before he can even
start
michael interrupts him okay go ahead now
since the market crashed make extra
money the peaky blinders have gotten
into the heroin business with the
chinese now michael's crunched the
numbers and if they expand that business
into america with the help of gina's
family who apparently has criminal
connections there the drug business is
going to be way more profitable than
everything else they do combined
in fact he's drawn up a new business
plan for the shelby company limited
where tommy would basically retire
and michael would take over time's like
okay michael let me see that nope
straight in the trash
get the hell out of here you're banished
again but his wife gina's like well i
guess it's plan b then
is michael planning to betray tommy even
his mom's pretty mad at him for this in
fact aunt paulie resigns from the
business she's like look if it's a war
between you and michael i can't be
involved so with that out of the way
it's family meeting round two where
tommy's like alright so who wants to
assassinate a fascist so at the big
mosley rally he's not playing koi
anymore he's going full-on fascist make
britain great again a big part of
mosley's speech by the way is blame
everything on the jews
and speaking of jews it's alfie
solomon's he survived tommy's decided to
mostly forgive him he is just too funny
and likeable to kill so he helps
organize a riot that serves as the
signal for the assassination but wait
what's this oh
sniper killed abramo gold finally going
to get revenge on jimmy mcaverne but oh
he's killed two stabby stab
they come for arthur too but oh he
manages to get the jump on him yes
someone leaked tommy's plan but
apparently didn't tell mosley he doesn't
seem to know anything about it so
tommy's racking his brain trying to
figure out who betrayed him but it was
probably an accident from his younger
brother finn earlier finn was like hey
tommy i'm a character on this show and
tommy was like you know what you are to
give him something to do they set him up
with an old soccer player to work
together to fix football games but
mostly these two did just a bunch of
cocaine
and so finn let it slip we're
assassinating a fascist and this guy who
has no particular loyalty to the peaky
blinders
reached for the phone and so as season 5
ends tommy shelby did not win
he walks off into the fog where he
hallucinates grace like time to join me
and he puts a gun to his head
does tommy shoot himself find out in the
sixth and final season of peaky blinders
if you liked this recap hit that
subscribe button for more of the best
recaps of tv and movies and if you loved
this recap check out the join button and
support the channel as a member